Issue Escalation
================

This document contains guidance notes for issue escalation and
communications between workshop coordinators, the project lead, and
the Steering Committee.  It is meant to evolve over time.

Issues Requiring Steering Committee Clearance
---------------------------------------------

* Offers of sponsorship for individual workshops
* Fee waivers for individual workshops
* Instructor training classes

Note: Code of Conduct issues should always be brought to the project
lead's attention, even if they have already been handled by the
workshop instructors.  The project lead should summarize any such
events at Steering Committee meetings and provide details if
requested.

Who to Contact
--------------

If an item that requires Steering Committee clearance comes up - or if
a workshop coordinator is simply unsure or has a question - the first
point of contact is the project lead.  If for any reason the workshop
coordinator feels the project lead's response is unsatisfactory, he or
she should approach a member of the Steering Committee directly.

(Having said that, all Steering Committee members have indicated that
they are happy to be contacted directly by workshop coordinators, so
don't be shy!)

Urgent Issues
-------------

If the project lead (or any other Steering Committee member) has an
issue that requires Steering Committee clearance prior to the next
scheduled Steering Committee meeting, decisions can be made via email
according to the following process:

* The project lead (or Steering Committee member) emails the Steering
  Committee outlining the issue

* Within one week, Steering Committee members respond with either:
  * their approval;
  * suggested amendments to the proposal/issue; or
  * a request to delay any decision until the next Steering Committee
    meeting

An issue can be acted upon as soon as an approval response has been
posted by more than three quarters of Steering Committee members,
provided there are no requests for amendments or delay. Otherwise, at
the end of the week the responses are tallied:

* If all responses approve and more than half the Steering Committee
  have responded, the issue can be acted upon

* Otherwise the project lead (or Steering Committee member) must amend
  the issue/proposal and start the process again, or add the issue to
  the agenda for the next meeting
