Software Carpentry Foundation Interim Board Meeting
===================================================

November 18, 2014, 19:30-21:00 UTC
----------------------------------

Attending
---------

* Neil Chue Hong
* Jenny Bryan
* Tracy Teal
* Damien Irving
* Greg Wilson
* Carole Goble
* Kaitlin Thaney
* Katy Huff

Apologies
---------

* Adam Stone
* Josh Greenberg
* David Ascher

Actions
-------


* All: indicate suitability of slots for future meetings to determine
  potential new time for meetings
  [http://doodle.com/prk4ybawes5tn8b3](http://doodle.com/prk4ybawes5tn8b3).
  * Next meeting will be Dec 2 at regular time unless other time is found.

* GW: make minor changes to governance model and circulate
  for final approval.

* GW: make minor changes to workshop operations and revenue
  document and circulate for final approval.

* GW, DI, TT: revise description of membership model and circulate for
  final approval.

* GW: modify draft budget spreadsheet to synchronize with changes to
  membership model and circulate.

* All: propose revisions to draft budget to indicate organizational
  needs for further discussion.

* All: pass leads for instructor training funding to GW.

* KH: draft "role and responsibilities for Board members" document.

* NCH: draft "role and responsibilities for Advisory Board members"
  document with support from KT.

Resolutions
-----------

* The Board adopts the by-laws laid out in
  [governance-2.md](https://github.com/swcarpentry/board_pvt/blob/master/governance-2.md)
  subject to minor amendments:
  * Organizational members get a vote, but do not get to nominate
    candidates who would not otherwise qualify
  * Wording that explicitly allows amendment of governance rules on a
    yearly or two-yearly cycle after the first year.

* The Board adopts the organizational membership model laid
  out in [membership.md](https://github.com/swcarpentry/board_pvt/blob/master/membership.md)
  subject to agreement on revisions to address the following:
  * Partners: providing coordination for taking SWC to a wider
    community (geographical or domain)
  * Affiliate: providing workshops for their local organisation /
    community - don't want to go outside of this, but still want to be
    officially recognised part of SCF. Prefer to pay an annual fee to
    run as many workshops in a year or provide useful in-kind effort.
  * GW, DI, and TT to rework membership.md in the next 48 hours, based
    on the general discussion that affiliates get an in-house workshop
    fee waiver, but in order to be an affiliate they either give us an
    annual fee or equivalent (or greater) staff time (and we should
    run our threshold values for time and money by Carole)

* The Board adopts the revenue sharing model laid out in
  [workshops.md](https://github.com/swcarpentry/board_pvt/blob/master/workshops.md)
  starting from November 1, 2014, subject to minor amendments:
  * Clarify that this applies to non-member (i.e., non-partner or
    affiliate) organizations, as different arrangements apply for
    members
  * Modify wording for waivers to fees
    
* The Board adopts the draft budget for 2015 laid out in budget.xlsx
  subject to amendments to bring it into line with the changes to the
  membership model discussed above.

* The SCF accepts the support offered by RStudio.

* The Board authorizes the Executive Director to seek $20K in
  donations to cover the cost of running online instructor training in
  Jan-Apr 2015.
            
Discussion
----------

* Greg can open funding discussions with:
  * Sloan Foundation
  * Moore Foundation
  * Arnold Foundation
  * Wellcome Foundation
  * Argonne National Laboratory
  * Intel
* There is a proposal in motion already with the Helmsley Trust
  through MSL
