Software Carpentry Foundation Interim Board Meeting
===================================================

October 14, 2014, 19:30-20:45 UTC
---------------------------------

Attending

* Jenny Bryan (Univ of British Columbia)
* Josh Greenberg (Sloan Foundation)
* Katy Huff (UC Berkeley)
* Damien Irving (University of Melbourne)
* Neil Chue Hong (Software Sustainability Institute)
* Adam Stone (Berkeley Lab)
* Tracy Teal (Michigan State / Data Carpentry)
* Kaitlin Thaney (Mozilla Science Lab, audio only)
* Greg Wilson (Software Carpentry)
* David Ascher (Mozilla) - on Etherpad, but not on call

Etherpad: https://swc.etherpad.mozilla.org/board-2014-09-30

Actions
-------

* Board: next meeting on Tue Nov 4 (same time)
* Board: submit corrections/extensions to governance doc via pull requests by Oct 24
* DI + GW + NCH + KT: define process for communication and issue escalation among workshop coordinators
* KT + JG + JB + NCH: talk about GW's salary from Nov 1
* AS + KH: arrange AS access to GitHub repositories
* JB + KH: transfer ownership of draft grants material to Software Carpentry board group
* GW: find out how much notice we need to give NumFOCUS to have a rep attend a board meeting
* GW: re-add note to governance doc about SCF board deciding scope of SWC project
* GW: circulate minutes from last two meetings for approval before putting in public repository

Resolutions
-----------

* KH + TT + GW will be signatores on the NumFOCUS FSA
* Documents stored in two GitHub repositories
  * Public (things go here by default): https://github.com/swcarpentry/board
  * Private: https://github.com/swcarpentry/board_pvt
  * Send minutes to board mailing list for correction/redaction of personal information
  * Put into public repository one week after meeting
* Escalation
  * Workshop coordinators promote issues to project lead as needed
  * Project lead promotes to board as needed
  * Coordinators may go directly to the board if they feel it appropriate

Summary
-------

* Date of next meeting
  * GW: propose Tue Nov 4 3:30 EDT
    * NCH: may not be able to do it
  * passes: if NCH is unable to make it, choose a chair closer to the day
* Final approval for signing up with NumFOCUS
  * KH, TT, GW as signatories
  * passes
* Mechanics of storing SCF documents (KH)
  * Public Repo : https://github.com/swcarpentry/board
    * minutes will hold summaries of the chat window
  * Private Repo : https://github.com/swcarpentry/board_pvt
  * Board Team : https://github.com/orgs/swcarpentry/teams/board 
  * Procedure for when we make things public?
    * e.g. minutes
    * Once there is a milestone version, we can introduce a period of review on the listhost
    * After a week of discussion on the listhost, things will become public.
    * passes
  * Should grants stuff go in board_pvt?
    * Probably not but once we have time to discuss this (probably not today) we can tackle that.
* Discussion of governance and core vs non-core activities
  * Re-add note about board deciding scope of Software Carpentry (what's in/what's out)
  * Do we think that it is useful to have a NumFOCUS rep observe at the Board meetings?
    * NumFocus have offered to attend Board meetings
  * Do we need the governance document to be in particular format (for legal reasons)?
    * Yes, soon but not immediately
  * Who fights copyright / trademark ?
    * NumFOCUS (because they will own the trademarks)
  * Q: what can/should be handled by admin staff like Arliss, what needs to be pushed up to the board?
  * proposal: admins promote to the project lead as needed, project lead promotes to the board as needed, admins encouraged to go direct to the board if they feel appropriate
  * passes
* Discussion of budget
  * Josh: "SCF = steward of the public goods for SWC". Institutional partners contribute to SCF to support that.
  * Who organises the "special" workshops, like WiSE workshops? (or little efforts by, say, grad students, who don't have easy access to funding streams or event coordination abilities) 
    * Does a central "workshop coordinator of last resort" need to paid by taxing institutional contributors?
      * Are there any funders who would support this? Possibly not?
      * why would institutions be happier paying for program management than for coordination?
  * Can we make it so that institutional partner contributions aren't calculated such that early contributors don't end up paying more because they are subsidising the lack of other contributors?

* From the chat:
  * DI: Whatever happened to each individual workshop giving money for core?
    * GW: we've been asking for donations - hasn't been particularly successful
  * JB: Re: a donation to support a specific workshop, how do we feel about a donation to support development of curriculum for specific topic?
    * DI: At UniMelb we are getting money from the Australian National Data Service to develop capstone examples using Australian data
  * DI: Does [organization's] contribution to the 'core' have to be money?
    * GW: alternatives?
    * DI: Not sure. I just know that [some orgs] will probably not want to contribute money to core.
    * JG: the only "in kind" support to core budget lines according to my strict definition would be salary for the project leads (not workshop coordination)
  * TT: I'm a little concerned that all workshop coordination is being 'outsourced' to institutional partners, and it makes it hard to coordinate as a whole
  * JB: It would be hard to get grant money to SWCF to support workshop coordination. That should be for curriculum development and advocacy.
  * DI: At what point do you become an institution that is doing so much SWC stuff that they should start giving money? 3 workshops a year? More? Less?
  *  GW: overhead to ramp up on workshop coordination machinery is (unfortunately) considerable at the moment, so volunteers stepping in to coordinate a workshop now and again is impractical
