# Steering Committee 2015-07-02

## Welcome [ 5 min, until 0:05 ] 

## Previous Action Items [ 10 min, until 0:15 ] 


-   Enabling self-organised workshops to generate
    questionnaires from the template
	-   Assigned: Aleksandra
	-   Status: Finally figured out OAuth2.0 for Google API! Have a
    script that works (due to security issues, currently in a private
    repo - Greg and Piotr Banaszkiewicz have access). Should soon sort
    out the security and the script will be usable. Hope to finish
    before going to Netherlands next week to run DC hackathon
    and workshop.

-   CSHL availability August 12-13
    for in person meeting
	-   Assigned: Jason
	-   Status: Rooms booked; working on reimbursement/travel

-   Program Coordinator Hire
	-   Assigned: Katy/Greg
	-   Status: Received applications, formed committee (Tracy, Greg,
    Katy, Amy), reviewed applications, selected interviewees. See
    discussion below.

-   Co-Executive Director Hire
	-   Assigned: Katy/Greg
	-   Status: Greg has now taken the lead here. See
    discussion below.
    
-   Assessment:
	-   The subcommittee needs to talk to Greg to set deadlines

-   Back Pay for ED
	-   Assigned: Greg & Jason
	-   Status: not yet discussed (job ad + holiday took precedence,
    and still waiting for another financial update from NumFOCUS)

## Updates from Subcommittees [ 10 min, until 0:25 ] 


Updates only necessary if applicable. It's OK to say "no news from
X Subcommittee".

-   Fees
	-   Liaison: Raniere Silva
	-   Update: no update.
    Raniere wants to review previous discussion based on “Proposal for
    new org membership rules”.

-   Finance
	-   Liaison: Jason Williams
	-   Update: No update. Jason will check with Leah on
    regular reporting deadlines; committee should meet this quarter to
    follow up. 

-   Partner Relations / Development
	-   Liaison: Jason Williams
	-   Update: Jonah, Jason, and Greg met to discuss partner issues

-   Assessment
	-   Liaison: Jason Williams
	-   Update: Gathering feedback on latests draft materials:    
	[1] http://software-carpentry.org/blog/2015/06/learner-assessment-part-01.html ,   
	[2][https://github.com/swcarpentry/assessment/issues/6 ;
    still should meet with Greg for feedback. 

-   Mentorship
	-   Liaison: Raniere Silva
	-   Update: Debriefing sessions continue,    
	http://software-carpentry.org/blog/2015/06/instructor-debriefing-2015-06-24.html.
    Having discussion about instructor training and transform feedbacks
    from debriefing into issues/pull requests.

-   Lesson Organization and Development
	-   Liaison: Matt Davis
	-   Update: no update

-   Communication
	-   Liaison: Adina Chuang Howe
	-   Update:  no update (but I am working on the brochure)

## Proposal for new org membership rules [20 min, until 0:45] 

Background: we have, based on conversations with our members,
started working on revising our organizational membership rules. Common
comments were that the current membership rules could be confusing, and
that some requirements were not all that welcome. At this stage, we have
a draft ready that we have shown our Advisory Committee. Shown below are
comments received from AC, as well as the suggested responses from
Greg.

**Feedback on Partnership/Admin Fee Proposal**

One AC member was not sure about letting partners run workshops
for free if they are taking care of organizing. That member gets that
they are doing most of the work, but managing the development of the
materials is still a key contribution from the SCF that isn't free. It
seems that we should still charge a small fee for running fully local
workshops.

Gregs´s response to this: we debated this a couple of
years ago, and decided that if we weren't involved, we wouldn't charge,
because (a) it would make it difficult for a couple of grad students to
get together and do something useful and (b) it would be difficult to
enforce.

Another member wondered what the policy would be for workshops
that a partner organizes for another host, i.e. organizing both
registration and instructors for another host without using SCF
administrative services. Options regarding charging us for these could
be a) up to the partner, b) free as part of the agreement or c) it must
be the standard fee. 

Greg´s response: option a. If there is no demand on SCF staff,
this is no different than a bunch of students getting together to
organize a workshop.

The same member wondered what the partnership agreement around
partners and affiliates opting in/out of SCF information gathering
(e.g., surveys, workshop statistics) should be. 

Greg's answer is that *everyone* has to give us at least a
headcount in order to use the name and logo; we strongly encourage
everyone (partner or not) to participate in other information gathering,
but recognize that some are unable to because of legitimate legal or
institutional constraints.

Each one of these should be discussed and settled on during the
meeting.

## Revisions to co-ED job ad [ 20 min, until 1:05 ] 

Background: Greg is moving to the UK for the fall, and will be
reducing his work hours. He is also planning on stepping down as
Executive Director next year. We are thus starting searching for a
person who could be co-ED with Greg to learn the ropes, with the goal of
that person stepping up as ED, provided everything works out. With this
background, we have been working writing up texts announcing Greg
stepping down, and the search for a new co-ED. This was shown to the
Advisory Council, and this is their feedback:

-   Member A
	-   Will the ED actually be employed directly by NumFOCUS?  Or
    will they be a contractor (as they are now)?
	-   Rather than calling the new hire "co-ED", could the new person
    be ED right from the start, and Greg move to Associate ED?
	-   SCF should put together a transition checklist like this one:
    https://seafc.org/media/SEAFC-Executive-Director-Transition-Policy.pdf
	-   Suggestion: put up the blog post (which is about Greg) and the
    job ad (which is not) separately, but linked.
	-   The start date feels rushed - a lot of people
    aren't going to be able to leave their existing job and start this
    that quickly.

-   Member B
	-   Also surprised by the short application period.
	-   That, plus the 2-page statement including something about
    "current relationship with Software
    Carpentry", will strongly restrict applications to
    people already inside SWC.  If that's not our intention, we should
    lengthen the application period and soften the language (e.g.,
    "current relationship, if any, with SWC").

-   Member C
	-   The job ad should include a salary range (e.g., a
    $20K spread) to give potential applicants a rough idea
    of what we have in mind without hemming us in.
	-   Suggested some changes to the wording of the opening (not
    included in minutes as such, but explains the reasons behind Greg
    wanting to gradually step down and how that will work with a new
    person coming in).


These comments should be discussed during the meeting to figure
out how we should incorporate it into current texts.

## Blog Post or history statement about MSL split [5 min, until 1:10 ] 


We are no longer affiliated with MSL, and we have thus lost
Arliss. The issue is whether we announce it in some way. Considering our
previous relationship with MSL, some might think that we are still
associated with them, as long as we don’t explicitly say something. A
text about this has been written, which was originally intended as a
blog post. The question is whether we should: 

Option 0: Post it on the blog.  
Option 1: Don’t post it on the blog, just add a few statements to
the history page.  
Option 2: Post the statement on the Discuss list. That way people
will know, without making a big deal of it.  

In this discussion, we should decide between these options.

## Request for a commercial workshop from a Dutch company[10 min, until 1:20 ] 

We have had a request for a possible on-site workshop from www.rijkzwaan.com. It’s a Dutch company. 2 of their representatives attended a DC workshop which Aleksandra and Karthik run last week in Utrecht. They liked it and fed back to the company. The company now wants DC and possibly SWC on-site workshop. Greg and Tracy are in the email exchange.

-   MOTION?

## PC Candidates [5 min, until 1:25 ] 

-   What: For the Program Coordinator
    position, we received 21 applications. About half were of reasonable
    quality and, of those, 4 were
    knocked-out-of-the-park. Two more weren’t
    quite out of the park, but were almost home
    runs.
-   Interviews: On Tuesday of next week,
    Greg, Tracy, Myself, and potentially Amy, will conduct these
    interviews and try to take copious notes to share with you all.   
-   How: We have put together the
    following list of questions, to help standardize the interviews.

MOTION: This afternoon, Katy should send emails inviting the candidates. People below our acceptable cutoff will receive a rejection email. People who we might still consider in a second round will receive an email thanking them for their application and letting them know we are
reviewing it. 

## Adjourn 
=====================================


# Steering Committee Notes 2015-07-02


## Attending: 

Matt Davis
Katy Huff
Adina Howe
Raniere Silva
Aleksandra Pawlik
Karin Lagesen


## Not attending

Greg Wilson
Jason Williams



## Previous Action Items [ 10 min, until 0:15 ] 

-   Enabling self-organised workshops to generate
    questionnaires from the template
	-   Assigned: Aleksandra
	-   Script exists, but needs to be tested. In the hands of
    admins now.

-   CSHL availability August 12-13
    for in person meeting
	-   Assigned: Jason
	-   No update from agenda

-   Program Coordinator Hire
	-   Assigned: Katy/Greg
	-   No update from agenda

-   Co-Executive Director Hire
	-   Assigned: Katy/Greg
	-   No update from agenda

-   Assessment:
	-   No update from agenda

-   Back Pay for ED
	-   Assigned: Greg & Jason
	-   No update from agenda

## Updates from Subcommittees [ 10 min, until 0:25 ] 

Updates only necessary if applicable. It's OK to say "no news from
X Subcommittee".

-   Fees
	-   Liaison: Raniere Silva
	-   No update from agenda

-   Finance
	-   Liaison: Jason Williams
	-   No update from agenda

-   Partner Relations / Development
	-   Liaison: Jason Williams
	-   No update from agenda

-   Assessment
	-   Liaison: Jason Williams
	-   No update from agenda

-   Mentorship
	-   Liaison: Raniere Silva
	-   No update from agenda

-   Lesson Organization and Development
	-   Liaison: Matt Davis
	-   No update from agenda

-   Communication
	-   Liaison: Adina Chuang Howe
	-   No update from agenda

## Proposal for new org membership rules [ 20 min, until 0:45 ] 

The new membership proposal prompted a discussion about the main
focus of SCF: are we primarily focusing on supplying workshops to hosts,
or on educating teachers. This point was raised because as of now, we
are educating more teachers than we have workshops for. One thing that
may affect things is also that we are now charging for workshops. That
might give people incentives to organize workshops themselves, which may
change the dynamics of the organization.

One idea that the SCF could potentially go for is that the SCF
could be the host for workshops. We could organize the workshop at great
cities with good airports and invite learners to attend at these cities.
The learners would pay to be learners instead of institutions paying to
be host, and we get our fee and cover instructors costs from that.
Instructors get flight and accommodation at a nice city for the weekend.
This would also be a good way of ensuring a certain number of completely
open workshops, which would allow people we are not able to target
otherwise attend. 

It was also mentioned that training instructors does help
organizations be independent. It should be noted that while no one gets
access to our instructor lists, nothing prohibits institutions from
creating their own list of instructors, which could help them be more
self organized.

Summary of SC discussing the feedback on Partnership/Admin Fee
Proposal


-   On letting partners run workshops for free if they are doing
    all of the organizing: Main consensus was to agree with Greg, i.e.
    if SCF is not involved, SCF should not be paid.
-   On charging partners who run workshops for other hosts: Main
    consensus was to agree with Greg, i.e. let it be up to the partner
    to decide. if SCF is not involved, SCF should not be paid.
    ACTION: this must be further clarified
    in the proposal.
-   On partners opting in/out of information gathering: No opting
    out unless there are legal constraints dictating it. This data helps
    SCF a lot with regard to lesson development and funding. ACTION:
    must be clarified in the proposal.

This new proposal is likely to be adopted from September. Old
members will have the option of staying on the old agreement out the
current contract period, but all new memberships will be based on this
proposal.

ACTION: Greg amends the proposal, and it will be voted on on the
next SC meeting. After that, it goes to AC for their approval.


## Revisions to co-ED job ad [ 20 min, until 1:05 ] 

Results of SC discussing the feedback from AC on co-ED
texts:

-   Member A
	-   Will the ED actually be employed directly by NumFOCUS?  Or
    will they be a contractor (as they are now)?
		-   The answer is probably contractor because NumFOCUS can’t
    employ anyone.
		-   Katy ACTION: check with NumFOCUS.

	-   Rather than calling the new hire "co-ED", could the new person
    be ED right from the start, and Greg move to Associate ED?
		-   This question sparked a lot of discussion. Calling it
    Executive Director (ED) from the get go is strictly speaking not
    correct, since Greg will be continuing in the ED capacity, and that
    the person will only be ED in actuality once Greg steps down.
    However, we are actually looking for the person who will become
    Greg´s replacement in the long run. If we announce it as ED we would
    be more clearly stating our intentions, and we might get
    better applicants. In this discussion, the revised text to the
    blog/ad that AC Member C suggested was considered, and all in all,
    with the revised text in mind the SC decided it would be ok to
    announce a search for a new ED.

	-   SCF should put together a transition checklist like this one:  
    https://seafc.org/media/SEAFC-Executive-Director-Transition-Policy.pdf
		-   SC agreed on this. 
		-   Greg ACTION: put up checklist for transition.

	-   Suggestion: put up the blog post (which is about Greg) and the
    	job ad (which is not) separately, but linked. 
		-   With text changes suggested by AC Member C, this
    makes sense.
	-   The start date feels rushed - a lot of people
    aren't going to be able to leave their existing job and start this
    that quickly.
		-   SC agreed to postponing the deadline.
		
-   Member B
	-   Also surprised by the short application period.
		-   SC agreed to postponing the deadline.
		
	-   That, plus the 2-page statement including something about
    "current relationship with Software
    Carpentry", will strongly restrict applications to
    people already inside SWC.  If that's not our intention, we should
    lengthen the application period and soften the language (e.g.,
    "current relationship, if any, with SWC").
		-   SC agreed to modify the text on this.

-   Member C	
	-   The job ad should include a salary range (e.g., a
    $20K spread) to give potential applicants a rough idea of what we
    have in mind without hemming us in.	
		- Note from Katy on this: It was the opinion of a
    few interim steering committee members that Greg gets paid really
    well for a non-profit ED. While I think paying someone else the same
    amount we pay Greg makes sense, I also think it’s possible that
    “commensurate with experience” could be the right wording. 

	-   Suggested some changes to the wording of the opening. 
		-   This opening was accepted by SC.

ACTION: incorporate our changes, and post it on the
website.

## Blog Post or history statement about MSL split [5 min, until 1:10 ] 

One concern that was raised is that people might still think that
we still have some sort of special relationship with MSL. As long as we
don’t announce it in some way, people won’t be aware of this. It was
briefly mentioned in the advertisement of a Program Coordinator, but it
does seem somewhat strange just leaving it at that. Also, us losing
Arliss is not the same as SCF not being partnered with MSL. It is
somewhat mentioned in our history text, where it says "Wilson left
Mozilla in July 2014 to help found the Software Carpentry Foundation, an
independent non-profit volunteer sponsored by NumFOCUS." However, Greg
leaving MSL is not the same as SCF not being involved with MSL. 

One possibility is to raise this at a lab meeting. No lab meeting
is currently scheduled, and there could also be confusion remaining even
after that - lab meetings might not reach everybody. 

One possible option would be to send something to the Discuss
list, and not have it as a blog post. The current text as is would
probably not be suitable for that. One option is to send something to
the discuss list where we use this as an opportunity to introduce our
new admin people, and to include in that email that we are no longer
affiliated with MSL. Thus, the email would serve a good purpose
(introduce new staff), while also clarifying one of the major reasons
for why we have new staff. This option was reasonably well liked among
the SC, and will be acted upon.

During this discussion our general need for communicating better
with both our instructors and our members was also raised. 


## Request for a commercial workshop from a Dutch company [10 min, until 1:20 ] 

We have a pilot running for commercial workshops. Aleksandra will
try to see if they can fit in this pilot, and will keep us posted on
developments.


## PC Candidates [5 min, until 1:25 ] 

MOTION: Invite candidates for interview. Seconded,
Passed.

## Adjourn 
=======================================

