# Steering Committee 2015-05-21


# ## Welcome [ 5 min, until 0:05 ]
  
Matt Davis acting as chair.


# ## Previous Action Items [ 10 min, until 0:15 ]
  

* Enabling self-organised workshops to generate questionnaires from the template
    * Assigned: Aleksandra
    * Status: progressing on script (Google OAuth 2.0!!!!!!!!!) with help from Trevor King. May be able to finish it this coming weekend and get something workable (before it gets fully integrated into ‘amy’)


* Talk with Aleksandra about generating questionnaires
    * Assigned: Greg:
    * Status:

* Katy to look over PR 864 final time
    * Assigned: Katy
    * Status: Done.  onflicts and unresolved comments remain.

* Determine CSHL availability August 12-13 for in person meeting
    * Assigned: Greg & Jason
    * Status: Rooms reserved - I need an RSVP to see if we can get on campus housing, otherwise, will provide hotel recommendation for self-booking
      We will have a virtual attendance option. 

        * Greg is definitely not able to attend in person :-(
        * Matt not coming, taking a trip right before this.
        * Aleksandra will attend - will travel from Edinbugh UK on 11th. (currently return flight ~ 650 USD)

* CWSEI (UBC) proposal
    * Assigned: Greg
    * Status: Greg will write up after the online training on June 8-9 and submit for June 11 meeting

* ACTION: Cancel NumFOCUS lawyer review of the MSL MoU
    * Assigned: Greg
    * Status: done

* ACTION: Write blog about loss of Arliss support
    * Assigned: TBD
    * Status: (deferred until split final)

* Send email about first Advisory Council(?) meeting.
    * Assigned: Greg
    * Status: mail sent - meeting will happen at 12:00 Eastern on June 10

* Create an issue concerning COS requirement for partnership (custom lessons)
    * Assigned: Greg
    * Status: in the agenda for today


## Updates from Subcommittees [ 10 min, until 0:25 ]
  
Updates only necessary if applicable. It's OK to say "no news from X Subcommittee".

* Fees
    * Liaison: Raniere Silva
    * Update: The subcommitee came up with a draft proposal. We still need more feeback from the Advisory Council and people experienced in supporting NGOs, funding initiatives that “serve good purpose” etc. Josh hasn’t replied to Aleksandra’s email. Aleksandra is yet to catch Carole and ask her (getting Carole’s attention ain’t easy and she’s constantly travelling). Basically, we suggest to maybe get feedback from the Steering Committee and then add this to the agenda for Advisory Council meeting.
    * For the Avisory Council meeting we’ll also have some specific questions (Camille sent some). Maybe to be added somewhere in the Repo attached to that file linked above?

* Finance
    * Liaison: Jason Williams
    * Update: No update - contacted Leah S. from NumFocus to try and arrange a meeting with her and accountant so we have a detailed report for all activities since Jan 1 for the Advisory Council meeting

* Partner Relations / Development
    * Liaison: Jason Williams
    * Update: Drafted some preliminary ideas on how we could restructure memberships, will meet again to bring to Steering Committee

* Assessment
	* Liaison: Jason Williams
    * Update: Met with Jeremia and Daniel, working and will possibly meet in person next week. 

* Mentorship
    * Liaison: Raniere Silva
    * Update: Meeting last week. Talk about future works.

* Lesson Organization and Development
    * Liaison: Matt Davis
    * Update: None

* Communication
    * Liaison: Adina Chuang Howe
    * Update:  None

## NeSC to become an Affiliate [ 10 min, until 0:35 ]
Description of topic:  

Mateusz Kuzak (whom Aleksandra met at the hackathon in Finland) has been working on Netherlands eScience Center to become Software Carpentry Affiliate Organisation. NeSC is keen to sign. We should go forward with this.

Resolution needed:

Approve NeSC to become an affiliate

Prepare the relevant documentation and put people in touch (Aleksandra will provide contacts to NeSC)

## CoS Partnership Update [ 10 min, until 0:45 ]
Description of topic: Update from Greg on the terms the Center for Open Science (COS) wants for their partnership.

  
From CoS:
--------------
  
We've made some forward progress on deciding on this one.  Here's our feedback right now:
 
(1) We're thrilled about the potential for supporting some efforts of Software Carpentry.  Working together on the [Women in Science and Engineering] workshop is also a fantastic step forward.
  
(2) For an incubator project grant to really make sense and align with our mission, we need for the focus of it to be on integration of the [Open Science Framework] into the curriculum and training program.  I know that the curriculum is open source and that we could work it in ourselves at any time, so the focus would instead be on how we can make OSF a useful part of the training process through integration.  We can contribute effort to development of the curriculum with OSF and the train-the-trainer element.
 
(3) In terms of format for the grant itself, we can't do it in the form of membership dues.  We'll have to issue a grant agreement to SCF, with milestones and reporting requirements.  
 
What are your thoughts about this?

------------------------

Link to Open Science Framework: https://osf.io/

Resolution needed: Can we work with CoS on these terms?

Motion: Allow Greg to reply to CoS with a proposal to have them become an affiliate in exchange for matching them with someone who can do lesson development.

## ELIXIR Partnership [ 10 min, until 0:55 ]
Description of topic: 

ELIXIR UK is already a partner but other Nodes aren’t yet. However, there are discussions going on about the main ELIXIR becoming a partner and covering thus all Nodes.

Resolution needed:

This is potentially another signal for us that we need to rethink the Partnership conditions.


# ## Adjourn
  

----

# Steering Committee Notes

----

# Attendance:
  
Karin Lagesen
Matt Davis
Greg Wilson
Aleksandra Pawlik
Jason Williams
  
Apologies:
Adina Howe
Katy Huff
Raniere Silva

  
  
# Steering Committee 2015-05-21 Notes

## Welcome [ 5 min, until 0:05 ]
  
Matt Davis acting as chair.

## Previous Action Items [ 10 min, until 0:15 ]
  

* Enabling self-organised workshops to generate questionnaires from the template
    * Assigned: Aleksandra
    * Status: In progress

* Talk with Aleksandra about generating questionnaires
	* Assigned: Greg
	* Status:Still in process. Not easy to figure out, but have booked time to do this

* Katy to look over PR 864 final time
    * Assigned: Katy
    * Status: Done. Conflicts and unesolved comments remain. 

* Determine CSHL availability August 12-13 for in person meeting
	* Assigned: Greg & Jason
	* Status: Rooms reserved - I need an RSVP to see if we can get on campus housing, otherwise, will provide hotel recommendation for self-booking
    * JW has booked Booked space, needs to figure out who is coming. Wants estimates for costs to figure out how much this costs.

* CWSEI (UBC) proposal
    * Assigned: Greg
    * Status: Hold off on this until online instructor training test in June. 

* ACTION: Cancel NumFOCUS lawyer review of the MSL MoU
    * Assigned: Greg
    * Status: 

* ACTION: Write blog about loss of Arliss support
    * Assigned: TBD
    * Status: (deferred until split final)
    * Need to ensure that we get money before they disappear.

* Send email about first meeting - AC council.
    * Assigned: Greg
    * Status: is now scheduled. Neil will chair it. Possibly inviting Katy or Matt, and possibly Greg. Main topic will be reorganizing the partnership agreement. 

* Create an issue concerning COS requirement for partnership (custom lessons)
    * Assigned: Greg
    * Status:

## Updates from Subcommittees [ 10 min, until 0:25 ]
  
Updates only necessary if applicable. It's OK to say "no news from X Subcommittee".

* Fees
    * Liaison: Raniere Silva
    * Update: Trying to chase down Carol to talk about things, and figure out who to talk to. Will show SC what we’ve got. Should probably go on AC minutes to get comments. Should also show to Cammille. Have also talked to Tracy/DC about ideas.

* Finance
    * Liaison: Jason Williams
    * Update: No update - contacted Leah S. from NumFocus to try and arrange a meeting with her and accountant so we have a detailed report for all activities since Jan 1 for the Advisory Council meeting. Todo: Aleksandra will send it to SC for comments.
    * Status: Trying to meet with Leah, need to get them to give us monthly reports. Try to meet with them this week.

* Partner Relations / Development
    * Liaison: Jason Williams
    * Update: Drafted some preliminary ideas on how we could restructure memberships will meet again to bring to Steering Committee
    * Status: have some ideas, will toss them around with Greg and AC

* Assessment
    * Liaison: Jason Williams
    * Update: Met with Jeremia and Daniel, working and will possibly meet in person next week. 

* Mentorship
    * Liaison: Raniere Silva
    * Update: Two instructor debriefings, one meeting. Karin working on proposal regarding instructor training.

* Lesson Organization and Development
    * Liaison: Matt Davis
    * Update: None

* Communication
    * Liaison: Adina Chuang Howe
    * Update:  None

## NeSC to become an Affiliate [ 10 min, until 0:35 ]
  
Aleksandra has pulled in NeSC as an affiliate. Todo: Greg will get in touch with NUMFocus to get the paperwork done. Probably go for money down solution as opposed for organizing workshops for us.

Greg motioned, Aleksandra seconded, all said yey!

## CoS Partnership Update [ 10 min, until 0:45 ]
  
CoS are building something called OSF - Open Science Framework. It has got few users so far. But: everybody saying that they are a good group of people, and they have money. The big issue is how we should work with them. They are issuing grants, which represent substantial funds. Greg is busy, and we might have people in the community that can work with them. Possible idea: they come in as affiliate, and we connect them to people who can apply for a grant and do the work they want done. SCF would then get out of the way, and not be contractually involved. This could possibly present a new direction for us to go, a productification of lesson creation. We could be a place where people could go to get lessons developed. They would become affiliate, we help them connect to a person to do the development, who gets paid directly. Can also do this as an open call thing where people contact us, and we get the ball rolling. This would then be a service for our partners. Additional benefit is lesson dissemination - can get a lesson created, and then could get the lesson tested in a real situation. 

Motion: allow Greg to respond on the terms above  (give us money, we matchmake them to somebody). Seconded. Passed. 

## ELIXIR Partnership [ 10 min, until 0:55 ]
The big question here is what are we signing an agreement with. Locations, organizations, etc? Also question is that we don’t have an upper limit on workshops members can organize. Also difficult to figure out what the membership rules actually specify, should probably take this up with AC to figure this one out. There are several institutions that are large, should consider having a top tier for massive institutions like NIH and ELIXIR. This probably means that we should consider how we could include such conglomerate organizations within our current membership model.

## Adjourn
  
Yay for Matt!

  
**