# Steering Committee 2015-10-08 DONE

## Attendance:

Attending
Katy Huff
Raniere Silva
Karin Lagesen
Aleksandra Pawlik
Greg Wilson
Matt Davis
Jason Williams
Jonah Duckles
Maneesha Sane

Not attending:
Adina Howe - Katy proxy

## 0 Welcome [ 5 min, until 0:05 ]

## 0 Welcome minutes [ 5 min, until 0:05 ]

Earlier this week, Mozilla unexpectedly took down etherpad without much of a warning. We 
have someone at Mozilla trying to get our Etherpad data out. We should be able to recover 
our etherpads eventually. We have our instructor signup pads back, as those are the most 
important ones. 

## 1 Previous Action Items [ 10 min, until 0:15 ]

So, now that we have github issues managing our action items, it’s easier to list them. 
Since we all have a ton of them, this section of the meeting might just be a good time 
to remind ourselves of our own items, remind folks of what we’re working on, and state 
any blocking issues (i.e., issue #9999 remains open because the assignee is hoping for 
a review by the board before it can be proposed at the next meeting).

## 1 Previous Action Items Minutes

In progress:

- Working on documenting instructor training 
- Working on MoU with Data Carpentry 
- Proposal regarding what to do with no-show instructors 
- Proposal for post-instructor training contact and after-workshop learner contact, to get people into the community 
- Working on a proposal for how proposals to the SC should be created 
- Working on how to define self-organized workshops 
- Working on procedures for what happens once a workshop is requested 
- Working on annual report 
- Trademark is in progress in the UK and Australia 
- Looking for bids for a website overhaul 
- Working on establishing new rules for memberships. 

## 2 Updates from Subcommittees [ 10 min, until 0:25 ]

Updates only necessary if applicable. It's OK to say "no news from X Subcommittee".

- Fees 
    - Liaison: Raniere Silva 
    - Update: no updates. 

- Finance 
    - Liaison: Jason Williams 
    - Update:
        1. We have a new template for NumFocus twice monthly 
        2. We have a template for quarterly finance report  

    - NumFOCUS will be moving to https://www.blackbaud.com/ which will make all 
      of this much much better for us. 

- Partner Relations / Development 
    - Liaison: Jason Williams 
    - Update: No Update 

- Assessment 
    - Liaison: Jason Williams 
    - Update: We have completed the post-survey draft. We (myself, Tracy) are 
      working to set up SurveyMonkey ASAP with NumFocus; will then be ready for 
      release.  

- Mentorship 
    - Liaison: Raniere Silva 
    - Update: debriefing sessions continue OK. Working on the selection for 
      Instructor Training in December and procedures for mentoring and 
      mini-lessons. 

- Lesson Organization and Development 
    - Liaison: Matt Davis 
    - Update: Have been emailing about Python lesson update, a couple members are 
      interested in having a telecon about it, so will try to schedule that for 
      next week. 

- Communication 
    - Liaison: Adina Chuang Howe 
    - Update: Monthly digest update; annual report in the works 

## 2 Updates from Subcommittees Minutes

Fees: none

Finance: They have put together two templates for financial reports. One is a twice a 
month report which will be for internal use, and also a quarterly public report. 
These will include reporting on financial health, so that we can manage to stay on 
budget. NumFocus are changing software so we will have access in real time. It is 
still good idea to ask them for reports. 

Partners: No update.

Assessments: Jason and Tracy are talking with NumFOCUS to set up Survey Monkey. As soon 
as it is set up we will create the surveys and start using it.

Mentorship: We had a meeting on Monday, where we discussed proposal for group selection. 
We have merged the comments and it looks ready to go. This Friday we will have a 
session on mentorship/minilesson

Lesson dev: Will have meeting next week. 

Communications: we are working on annual report. If we do monthly reports, they will 
probably be two months delayed. 

## 3 Update information about mailing list [10 min, until 0:35]

Lead: Jonah Duckles

Topic: There are many lists at our server. This is not a problem but we should update 
the information to help new subscribers with their expectations. We should flag lists 
that are available not because they are used but because they are archived.

Motion: Should we remove mailing lists that are inactive?

## 3 Update information about mailing list [10 min, until 0:35]

Jonah has made a list of email lists on our servers, and emailed out link to dormant 
lists. Is there a problem that we have many? Should we start pruning? This ties in to a 
larger question regarding lists created for workshops. We could reuse them, but another 
alternative is to create use and forget lists. In the UK they commonly create workshop 
lists, and they are used during run-up to workshop but not after. In many other places, 
workshop email lists are not created in the first place.The PC says that she never 
setup any mailing list. She just emails everyone when needed. Note: there is a difference 
between email lists for participants and those for organizers. SCF lists are commonly 
set up for organizers, not participants. Eventbrite is often used for participants. 

We could go for deleting those that already are inactive. We could also push more towards 
using Slack, because channels are easy to create and remove. However, any new tool could 
not work with some university admin. 

Action: leave email list questions to workshop setup proposal

Action: Jonah delete inactive (&gt;3 months or thereabouts) every 6th months. 

## 4 Selection of groups for instructor training [10 min, until 0:45]

Lead: Raniere Silva

Topic: Last round of review of the procedures to select groups for instructor training.

Motion: Not include any mentions of restrictions on participation for people from partners 
and affiliate institutions. This will conflict with our equal opportunity policy and can 
be dangerous to our relationship with some partners.

Motion: Drop the pull request requirement for eligibility because it will avoid confusion 
since DC does not require it.

Motion: Send it to Advisor board after the previous motion be incorporate. [not voted on]

Motion: Allow Mentoring Subcommittee approve the proposal after feedback of Advisor board.
[not voted on]

## 4 Selection of groups for instructor training [10 min, until 0:45]

Raniere has written a proposal for how to select people for the instructor training this 
December. Several people have looked over it. Raniere thinks it is good to go. However, we 
want to leave out clauses saying that people who belong to an member should contact their 
institution to get training. This will be especially good for new members who are rearing 
to go and want people trained quickly.

Motion: leave out clause that in any way differentially treat people by affiliation with 
partners or other institutional members.
Seconded, passed.

We currently require a Pull request for eligibility for those who want to become SCF instructors. 
If we move towards not requiring that, we need better ways of distinguishing instructors. We have 
required this so far for the 8 week program, but not for those that only intend to do DC. About 
1/4th of current pool have not done it, these are also 100% signed up as DC instructors. Tracy 
does not want to require it for DC. It useful for our students to know Git but if it is required 
it may create problems getting new instructors. Instructors are probably going to learn Git if 
it is required to create the webpage. Additionally, if we require git, we are likely to require 
shell, since you normally need shell to do git. In this context it should be noted that for the 
current instructor training signup, nobody asked for help with git, even though a system was 
set up that would let them do so. In this context it should also be noted that having things 
to do is good to get the students going, this creates activation energy which is good for getting 
going. Running a workshop is a lot of work, so we want instructors who are willing to do things. 
DC works differently, and it is completely ok to have different requirements. 

One caveat is that by requiring this, we are in some ways pre-selecting for people who are already 
technically skilled, this could hurt our diversity. We should therefore consider making it clear that
it takes about an hour to learn how to do a PR. Note: we do actually require people to have gone 
through a workshop to go through IT, hence they should have basic git training already. The question 
is however if it is being implemented. Also, what is the situation when it comes to training for 
partners? This is not currently a requirement for partner training. 

Countermotion: keep pull request requirement for SWC instructors, do not require it for DC.
Seconded. Passed.

Action: Raniere send to AC

Action: Mentorship approve final results after AC, barring major changes.

## 5 Arnold Foundation [10 min, until 0:55]

Lead: Jonah Duckles

Topic: Briefing on recent discussion with Stuart Buck of the Arnold Foundation

- Reluctant to support just “training” because board feels it doesn’t scale well. They would 
  rather fund “reproducibility”. 
- Thinks that there is a need for what SWC is doing and likes the scalability of training trainers 
  that go on to have impact with scientists. 
- Needs measurable and controlled metrics for impact of teaching. 
- Needs ways to communicate to his board at level of a The Economist article what our approach will 
  do to enhance reproducible science. 
- Has a VERY flexible board that will entertain proposals at any time. 

Motion: Prepare and deliver a 2-page high-level proposal to Arnold Foundation by end of 2015

## 5 Arnold Foundation [10 min, until 0:55]

Jonah spoke with AF last week. We have previously sent them proposal that got denied. They are 
not likely to grant money just to educate more people. If we want to apply with them, we need to 
figure out how write a proposal that they like. They want to focus on reproducibility in science 
and how to advance it. It was also suggested that to get a more focused application we could focus 
on one specific discipline, like bioinformatics, and for instance how just a couple of people can 
change how people within a discipline works. Also note, BIDS is currently collecting case 
studies on reproducibility.

ACTION: Jonah should go forth and create an application

ACTION: Greg will brief Jonah on previous actions, to avoid duplicating efforts. 

## 6 Host our own Etherpad server [10 min, until 1:05]

Lead: Raniere Silva

Topic: Raniere has a friend who knows the Etherpad software and who can install and configure the 
Etherpad on our server this weekend and help restore the data from http://swcarpentry.etherpad.mozilla.org/
in the short future. The suggestion is that we offer US$100 to him to do this.

Pros:

- Instructors continue to use the tools they already master. 
- No complains about authentication from anyone. 
- We continue to advocate for free/open source. 
- Lets other people focus on Amy. 

Cons:

- Will be more one software that we will need to maintain. 

Hackpad is an alternative:

- Pros 
    - nice looking interface 
    - clear history preservation/indication 
    - no need to log in to edit public pad 
    - (however, if you want to log in, user accounts are tied to github accounts) 
    - handles lots of users at once 
    - can create org domain 

- Cons 
    - no chat functionality 
    - probably can’t run it on our own server 

Motion: Make the offer to setup Etherpad server.

## 6 Host Our Own EtherPad Server [10 min, until 1:05]

Mozilla terminated etherpads on short notice. It is proving painful and annoying to recover 
data. Raniere has a friend who knows how to run Etherpads, and suggests we hire him to set 
up etherpads on our servers. There are good reasons to continue using etherpads since we 
already know how it works, but we also just have to run it ourselves which might be inconvenient 
and which will represent an opportunity cost. An important factor here is that we as an 
organization should be wary of entrusting our data to a third party who we don’t control, 
we should have ownership of our own data. However, we should also be wary of solutions 
that depend on volunteers, since volunteers may not be dependable. 

Another factor here is that we have RackSpace as a donor, and that we with the help of
NumFOCUS will be moving onto their servers soonish. That will give us professional level 
support. Moving to RackSpace will however not not happen soon enough to let us do the
Etherpads with them. It should however be noted that once the etherpad is up and running 
it should not require a lot of hands-on work.

Members of the SC have also used hackpad extensively, and thinks that this is something 
that should be explored in this context. Hackpad is free, and we can keep backups in 
Dropbox - we could the split the cost of that with DC. 

Maneesha is currently using Google Docs for instructor matching, and prefers to use that in the future. 

ACTION: Ask Jonah/Greg to figure out a timeline for getting us onto proper servers with professional support. 

ACTION: those interested in these issues gather and figure out solutions with more pro/cons.

Motion: Let Raniere hire his friend for now (not seconded)

Countermotion: Focus on determining a plan to transition to hackpads, look into dropox/box syncing. 

Seconded, passed???

## Adjourn
