#Steering Committee Minutes
##June 18, 1015

###Attending:
* Matt Davis
* Greg Wilson
* Jason Williams
* Katy Huff
* Adina Howe

Not attending:
* Raniere Silva [proxy = Katy Huff]
* Aleksandra Pawlik  
* Karin Lagesen [proxy = Matt Davis]



## Previous Action Items [ 10 min, until 0:15 ]
Updates:

* CSHL on-site advisory meeting, scheduled Aug 12 -13, agenda to be presented next meeting. 
* Greg updates on Ann Arbor CWSE proposal and concerns about optimal fit.
* Update from interview for candidate for adminstrative help, Judith Dworkin.  Greg and Katy present and report that it went well - announcement to be sent out on Monday.
* Greg updates that list of instructor training obligations is in preparation.
* Greg updates on CoS:  No new news, as we have not heard back from previous communications.

## Updates from Subcommittees [ 10 min, until 0:25 ]

Finance:  Jason continues to coordinate with Leah at NumFocus. Broadly, finances are good.  We discussed resolving back payments and meeting requirements for a 3 month reserve in accounts (especially with new position for adminstrator).  Jason will check on requirements and our ability to proceed. 

Partner relations: Jason updates that planning on meeting based on advisory board comments (to discuss membership agreements) soon.
 
Assessment:  Greg updates that progress can be seen based on pull requests.  Next month, we plan to have a rollout that can be tested in workshops.

Other committees:  No updates

## ED Responsibility Prioritization [ 20 min, until 0:45 ]
* Executive director responsibilities:  We discussed the roles of executive vs. assistant executive director.  Greg discussed some opportunities for the future executive director role that we may consider including for ED/AED roles:  improved synthesis of what weâ€™ve learned from debriefs, e.g., assessment, lesson planning; follow through on instructor training.

* The description of the AED position is being written by Katy and can be reviewed this week.

## Hiring [ 10 min, until 1:05 ]
* Judith Dworkin - adminstrator candidate was discussed. Katy and Greg enthusiastically endorsed Judith.
* Motion to hire Judith as admin; seconded; passed.

## New Partnership Agreements [ 10 min, until 0:55 ]
* Discussion on confusion on new partnership agreements and requirements and assessibility to our help organizing, especially at multi-national or multi-institution level.  We discussed writing up a proposal (assigned to Greg in coordination with Jason).

## Increasing Workshop Admin Fees [10 min, until 1:15 ]
* To coordinate with Data Carpentry and given our expanding role towards instructor training and lesson development, a motion to increase workshop fees was raised.
* Motion to raise fees to $2500 in September with Data Carpentry (clarification:  September being the date that workshop date is finalized); seconded; passed.
