# Steering Committee 2015-09-24

## Attendance:
Attending
Katy Huff
Raniere Silva
Greg Wilson (apologies - will be 30 minutes late)
Matt Davis
Adina Howe
Jason Williams
Maneesha Sane

Not attending:
Karin Lagesen
Aleksandra Pawlik

## 0 Welcome [ 5 min, until 0:05 ]

Stuff to read but not discuss:

- instructor training at Leeds and at Imperial College went well 
- 32 responses so far for instructor training, 3/4 preferring the eight-week course 
- Jonah will work 75% time for us and 50% time for U Oklahoma in October (wants to make 
  sure everything is cleared up by the end of the month there) 
- Jonah is able to come to the UK for a week in October or November 
- Piotr Banaszkiewicz is able to keep working on AMY a few hours a week during the school 
  year (Tracy is looking at funding him through DC) 
- Greg and Tracy are helping a group at U Texas put together a pre-bid for an IMLS grant 
  to run workshops for digital humanities 
- Lorena Barba is interested in getting GMU signed as an affiliate 
- Alistair Walsh will take over as Melbourne’s Advisory Council rep (Damien Irving is 
  wrapping up his thesis and then moving to Tasmania) 
- Raniere’s submission for micro-grant from the Government of São Paulo (city) for workshops 
  was accepted. He need to sign the papers and after that will have some dates. 
- SCF reps in the bridging committee are to look at the draft of the ELIXIR agreement (Greg 
  should have the link - Aleksandra) 
  
## 0 Welcome minutes [ 5 min, until 0:05 ]

## 1 Previous Action Items [ 10 min, until 0:15 ]

So, now that we have github issues managing our action items, it’s easier to list them. Since 
we all have a ton of them, this section of the meeting might just be a good time to remind 
ourselves of our own items, remind folks of what we’re working on, and state any blocking 
issues (i.e., issue #9999 remains open because the assignee is hoping for a review by the 
board before it can be proposed at the next meeting)

## 1 Previous Action Items Minutes

Done:

- We have a plan for how to train new instructor trainers 
- We know the costs of getting trademarks in Australia and the UK 
- We will be creating monthly digests, to summarize what is happening 
  
Ongoing:

- Working on new membership plan 
- Working on MoU with SSI and a MoU with DC, and partnership with CCLS 
- Working on a scheme for formulating policies 
- Working on a plan to help new instructors get out and teach for the first time 
- Working on a plan to connect with our learner to get them into our community 
- Working on scheme for assessment 
- Working on our strategic plan for the next few years 
- Working on proposal for how to select people for two-day instructor training 
- Working on material for annual report 

## 2 Updates from Subcommittees [ 10 min, until 0:25 ]

Updates only necessary if applicable. It's OK to say "no news from X Subcommittee".

- Fees 
    - Liaison: Raniere Silva 
    - Update: No updates. 

- Finance 
    - Liaison: Jason Williams 
    - Update: Tim Cerino is back in a position to contribute to this; we will need to 
      start on a 2016 budget; also see issues above 

- Partner Relations / Development 
    - Liaison: Jason Williams 
    - Update: None 

- Assessment 
    - Liaison: Jason Williams 
    - Update: see issues above 

- Mentorship 
    - Liaison: Raniere Silva 
    - Update: 
        1. Debriefing sessions continue. 
        2. Helpers and Instructors Retreat announced for November 14th. Thanks to Bill 
           and Tiffany. 
        3. Working at draft of proposal for selection of groups for instructor training. 
        4. Will work on the mentoring new instructors and mini-lessons soon. 

- Lesson Organization and Development 
    - Liaison: Matt Davis 
    - Update: Got in touch about the Python lesson rewrite, just getting started on info 
      gathering for that. 

- Communication 
    - Liaison: Adina Chuang Howe 
    - Update: brochure back in progress; annual report outline by next meeting 

## 2 Updates from Subcommittees Minutes

See above

## 3 Confirmation of workshop fees for partners [5 min, until 0:35]

Lead: Greg

Topic: Confirmation of workshop fees for partners

Maneesha would like confirmation that the $1250 admin fee for workshops we help 
arrange for partners and affiliates does not apply to organizations that signed 
up before we instituted the change (because our written agreements with them say, 
“will pay X annually in lieu of paying workshop administration fees”).

Motion: no motion required, just confirmation of interpretation

## 3 Confirmation of workshop fees for partners minutes

All of the existing affiliates/partners have signed agreements with the understanding 
that they will not be paying workshop fees. Our new agreements require affiliates/partners 
to pay ($1250). Maneesha needs to know who to invoice. 

Some affiliates/partners also have specific (and potentially different) number of 
maximum ‘free’ workshops. There are also some really confusing agreements, so we need 
to sort these things out.  We do have a members.csv list (which is not up to date), 
but this info may not have details on what exactly the signed up for (although all 
these docs are somewhere in the repo). 

We need to organize these so that we have a current picture on what we owe and what 
we have done. We should ask for help from membership committee to deal with this.

## 4 Submissions of groups to instructor training [10 min, until 0:45]

Lead: Raniere

Topic: Submission of groups to instructor training

Selections criteria are under development. We need to figure out how to do signup. This could be:

1. Google Forms 
    1. Good:is easy to setup. 
    2. Bad: is difficult to read long texts. 

2. Google Docs 
    1. Good: is easy for us made comments. 
    2. Bad: the application need to be copy for comments not be public. 

3. Email 
    1. Good: is easy for people send to us. 
    2. Bad: someone need to receive the emails and add to one shared location. 

Motion: Applications will be send to admin@software-carpentry.org and Maneesha 
will add it to Google Drive. We expect at maximum 20 applications.

## 4 Submissions of groups to instructor training minutes

We need to develop a cover letter that will deal with application to this training 
(a few paragraphs). 

Probably best option: use IFTTT (ifttt.com) to automate process of putting emails 
(with a specific subject line) into a google drive folder.

Counter-Motion: Greg, Raniere, and Tracy will form a subcommittee and have the 
power to make decisions on this group instructor training, including how to 
accept applications and how to collect applications.
Seconded, passed

ACTION: Raniere, Greg, Tracy, Review Doc https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/pull/53 

## 5 Bonus Payments for Outgoing ED [10 min, until 0:55]

Lead: Greg

Topic: SCF to pay a bonus to the outgoing ED of $5K/mo for Sep-Dec 2015

We have met the criteria for paying out the bonus. Sep, Oct, Nov, Dec. 
Therefore his bonus will be paid as per his contract.

## 5 Bonus Payments for Outgoing ED minutes

See above.

## 6 Transition [10 min, until 1:05]

Lead: Greg Wilson

Topic: Transition Mechanics

1. Invite Jonah Duckles to attend all future meetings. 
2. Make announcement early next week 
  
Motion: That Jonah Duckles be invited to attend all future meetings of the Steering Committee.

Motion: That we announce that he's been hired early next week (Greg and Jonah to draft 
blog post for email approval by Steering Committee).

## 6 Transition Minutes 

Motion: That Jonah Duckles be invited to attend all future meetings of the Steering 
Committee, subject to a review of the contract by SC and signing by the ED.

Motion: PASSES

Action: Greg - circulate the contract to the SC for comment ASAP

Motion: That we announce that he’s been hired early next week (Greg and Jonah to draft 
blog post for email approval by Steering Committee), subject to a review of the 
contract by SC and signing by the ED.
Seconded, passed

## ## 7 Instructor Training for GitHub [10 min, until 1:15]

Lead: Greg Wilson

Topic: Confirm online instructor training for GitHub Dec 9-10, 2015

GitHub have (finally) decided when they’d like the instructor training we owe them - 
need confirmation that two-day Dec 9-10 is OK.

Motion: Greg (and new instructor trainers if available) do two-day online instructor 
training for GitHub on Dec 9-10, 2015.

## 7 Instructor Training for GitHub minutes

Motion passed.

## 8 Continued Support for Piotr [10 min, until 1:15]

From karin: can somebody write something more clarifying here?

## 8 Continued Support for Piotr minutes

From karin: can somebody write something more clarifying here?

Continued support for Piotr (Tracy’s addition)

Ethan funds this

Action: Ask Piotr if that is cool with him. If so, blog post from Greg/Maneesha? Something like that?

## Adjourn
